Summary of Deep blue research paper:The paper attempts to elaborate design decisions behind Deep blue
What is Deep Blue by the IBM Watson Team? :Deep Blue is a chess machine that beat Gary Kasparov in Chess.
Factors contributing to Deep blue success: There were number of factors which had led to the success of deep blue,starting from 
single chip chess search engine ,massive parallel system,emphasis on search extensions, complex evaluation function to effective
grandmaster game database.Series of machines like chiptest,deep thought 2 ,deep blue 1 and deep blue 2 had led to the overall 
success of deep blue.
About the system:
Deep blue is a parallel system designed to carry out chess game tree searches.It has massive search capacity and each chess chips is 
capable of searching2.5 million chess positions per second.Deep blue would average around 100 million chess positions per 
second for tactical positions and double that for quieter positions.
The four main deep blue system characteristics are 
 Large searching capacity
 Search would provide insurance against simple errors
 Hardware evaluation 
 Hybrid and software approach.
The system chip can generate moves,evaluate moves and search control.

Hardware search involves depth of search and find offsets, once triggered the system is free to work other tasks.
Deepblue parallel search characteristics include processor hierarchy,
control distribution,parallelism,synchronization

Deep blue evaluation function is a sum of feature values.The chess chip recognizes
8000 different patterns and each is assigned a value.
Each feature value is static or dynamic.The evaluation function is run only at the root level
In addition to this Deep blue has 54 registers,8096 table entries and 8190 parameters
Deep blue has a opening book comprising various first moves and an extended book.
It also has a endgame database fewer than 5 pieces
Deep blue has a straight forward time control mechanisms.Adequate time buffer is included for sudden death scenarios and system issues.

Conclusion
There is no one factor that led to the success of Deep blue the combination of all the above factors have led to the success fo Deep blue.
The large searching capacity,non uniform search and complex evaluation functions 
were all instrumental in deep blues success.
The areas of improvement were parallel and hardware search efficiency which could have been made better. The paper attempts 
highlights the areas of improvement for further exploration.







